>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now on ES2017,
actually two years after ES6,
we find what most developer
thing is one of the best
updates in ECMAScript
since ES6 async await.
So now I have here almost the same
example as before, with one difference to
make things more simple or simpler,
is that the function start.
So I have a start, start calls doing
seconds with the same code as before.
So what's the deal with async await?
Async await is just sugar syntax on
top of the Promises API, sugar syntax.
So it's not changing the nature
of how promises work.
In fact, it's not going to change
how I create the promise, okay?
No, it's just going to change
how I consume the promise.
So, because we realize that,
yeah, it works.
But this then, catch, some people
thought that doesn't look nice.
So they say, we can just say we're gonna
store the value in a variable like this.
Okay, remember we did this
comment this for a second.
I mean, if I do this, it's not gonna work,
and then if I alert the value.
So the value, it's the promise,
we mentioned that.
So doing seconds returns a promise,
so the value is a promise, okay?
So that's not what I want,
I need to wait for the promise to finish.
I need to wait for the americano
to be ready and hot in my hand.
So for that,
we use a new syntax called await.
Await will await for the then,
it's replacing the dot then
with a different syntax.
And await only works if I run this,
it's giving me an error saying that
a weight is only valid in async functions.
Which means I need to declare that my
function will have a weight inside.
So it's not a normal synchronous function,
and
I do that by adding an async prefix.
So now, if I run this,
it's waiting 2 seconds and
then it's giving me success as before,
okay?
But it looks nice clean the code
with the thenn and the catch.
And it's better when you have a lot
of promises and chain promises.
So the code looks synchronous,
but it's actually asynchronous.
Internally there are some
generators going on here.
Okay, we won't get there, but
this is like a function that now
can end execution, wait, and
continue executing later.
So that's why it's an async function.
Typically in JavaScript, every function
is synchronous, so if it's a start,
it needs to finish, if it's not finishing,
it's blocking the thread.
Well, not an async function.
Okay, makes sense?
But there is still one part that I didn't
cover in this code because I covered
the then, but not the catch.
If you want to also catch
the errors with async await,
we can go back to use try catch.
When you have a try catch
with an await inside,
it that try catch will actually
catch the promise error and
not a synchronous exception.
Okay, makes sense?
And that's the async awaits index.
>> Speaker 2: So I've seen this pattern
in the past with a call it let value
declared at line 11.5 and
then close it into the try.
Do you in practice use further?
Just cuz it's gonna get hoisted
out to the top or is that just-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I'm talking about
the var let or const.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's a kind of
a different discussion.
For this particular example,
what's the difference of using var?
I don't think hoisting is the difference,
I think the block is different because
that means I can use the value outside.
I'm not sure if you want to do that,
but if I use a var,
I can use the value there outside of
the try, and if I use a let, I cannot.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I was just.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So then, you need
to define it outside and then do this,
which is okay, or you can use var.
So sometimes people think that
var is deprecated, but it's not,
var it's not deprecated, it's just
a different way to declare variables.
And if it feels that it's better for
the case you're gonna still use it,
makes sense?
>> Speaker 2: Absolutely,
yeah, I was just curious if you
were deliberately selecting var for
the ability to use it outside of that
block, or if it was just like the muscle.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, I think
that probably I didn't think consciously
about that.
But probably when it's a try
catch you will see that a lot
of developers are using var.
Because of this idea that typically you
try to narrow the try catch a small part.
And then you don't wanna have
a large block in the try, and
that typically means that bibles that
user carrying size won't be so useful.
So yeah, if not, you need to do the lead,
and you cannot use constant blah, blah,
blah, blah.
Well, it's up to you, it's a pattern.
But it's important to remember that
from ES6, that var is not deprecated.
I can't even bet that most JavaScript
developers think that if you're using var,
you are old school and
you are writing ES5.
And when you look at the var you say,
that's old code.
But there's no technical reason for
that, it's not deprecated,
it's not marked as deprecated.
Actually, ECMAScript never
marked things as deprecated,
it's just another way
to declare variables.
>> Speaker 2: I've seen
this pattern with let.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Cuz it's probably
more Java, C# than the pattern of
creating, so in Java you create
the string outside and then you define.
I think it's more a pattern that
is coming from mimicking other
languages in JavaScript.
>> Speaker 2: Are there cases where using
the old promise pattern would be preferred
over the async await pattern?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, to that
question, let me say first that we are not
changing the pattern, it's the same
promise pattern, it's just syntax sugar.
Now, talking about the sugar,
so it's the same promise.
Actually we can go back and
forth between one syntax at the other and
it's just the same.
But let me rephrase the question,
are there use cases where the then
is still better or looks better?
And yeah, there are.
I think one example is,
I don't have it here right now and
it will take some time to see that.
But if you're working with service
workers on progressive web apps, for
example, and you are serving
file from the service worker.
That particular case with
async await looks weird,
because it feels like using then and
catch fits better there.
So there are use cases where using async
await involves creating an inner class or
an inner function so
you need to do something like this.
You create an async arrow function
that then you immediately execute.
So, if you are finding yourself
doing something like this,
because if not, there is no
other way to solve the problem.
Maybe using then is still a better idea,
okay?
And one thing is top level, so
let's say that I want to do this,
where is this?
Start and
we go back to the sample doInSeconds.
Let's say I'm going to
execute doInSeconds, here,
I think that will answer
the question pretty well.
In five seconds, okay?
I wanna do something in five seconds,
so I need to await for this, okay?
And wait for the message,
but what is the problem?
Await is only valid in async functions and
I'm not in a function.
This is root code, top level code,
so I cannot do this.
There's one solution with async await
if you are force to async await,
you feel like if you're not
using async await you're dirty.
You create this weird
immediate async function.
I bet also you'll need to use arrow
function, you can also do this.
So you put this inner function in
an async function and then like that.
So this will close, let me put it this
way so it looks better, like this.
So I'm creating a function, by the way,
you will see why I'm
adding those parentheses.
I'm creating a function, but
I need to execute the function.
I can put a name to the function, so
I can put a name and execute, but
I don't wanna keep that function, okay?
So because I know when I keep
that function for later,
it's just when I use it, and that's all.
So then you execute the function,
but how can I execute the function?
They have just created,
this syntax is not working.
I need to put the function in parentheses,
this is called an immediate
executable function.
And if you're finding yourself
doing this just to use async await,
yes, I'm using async await.
By the way, you don't see anything
because I'm not doing an alert or
something on that.
But if you're doing this,
I think it's better to
stay with the other thing, so doInSeconds.
It's 4 seconds,
that's why it's taking more time.
So, let's go back to 2.
2 seconds, so in 2 seconds, and you say,
well then we will just get the message and
I will alert the message.
I think this one is better than this one.
So that's one example, and you can match
a mix because it's the same thing,
just with a different syntax.
So using it in a top-level global,
there is a top-level await that we will
see in a second, but it's not this one.
So I think this is one example where it
feels better to use then than async await.